Q1. What all information is stored in package.json and how is it different from package-lock.json?

Ans->
This contains information about the project that we are working on.
This contains things like name, description, version, author, etc etc.
This contains an object called as dependencies - This dependencies contains a collection of all the packages that we are using in our react application. All the packages that we have installed.
Suppose, I import a package called as PackageA. It is possible that PackageA is using other packages as it's dependency, PackageAA, PackageAB, PackageAC.
So, when I am installing packageA, indirectly I am also installing PackageAA and PackageAB and PackageAC. Total, we are installing 4 packages.
devDependencies - This is the collection of packages which is used for development purposes. This collection of packages is never pushed to the production server. Which keeps the load comparatively light.

It is different from package-lock.json bcause of,,
Package-lock.json file contains all the list of addtional (indirect) dependency installations.
This is a very comprehensive list. (Detailed)
We never touch this file. This is created by the node package manager automatically. We just use it and share with other team members.


Q2 > Is react a framework or a library and what is the difference between the two?

Ans => React is JavaScript library For creating User interface and single page App or fast Intereactive web pages and applications, React is most popular JavaScript library nowDays . It is very faast and light weight bcause , its can import only those libararry pakage which we need to used and install as per required. we can also develop mobile application using React , that is React Native. react makes the development easy , and creating fast Fronted and UIs 

Here most people may confused about FrameWork And Libarary , what is react is Actually ? , is this a framework or libarary , it is cleared conceptually therfore library , and in the sense libarary is a small thing compared with framework

In a library, it only contains the basics.
eg :
In React, API calls are not there, we import and axios. There is no routing by default, we need to use react-router.
In Angualar, all these things are built-in.
Libraries only contains the bare minimum that you need to get started. Anything extra, you need to install separately.

Libarary are small in Size 
framework are big in sixe




Q3. >Does React uses Html? Explain ?? 


Ans =>  The difference between HTML Element and a React Component?
HTML element is the element which is part of core HTML tags.
React Component is a function/class which contains html elements along with relevant functionalities.
React Component contains various HTML elements.
Example:
App is a Component.
div / header / button is an element.
Each component should have each separate file.
Generally, we put all the components inside a directory called as components.
Whatever the file name we give, that should be the function/class name. That is the component name.
The component names have to be in PascalCasing.
After creating the function/class, we also need to export it. Typically using export default
Whichever component needs it, it will import that in order to use.
If any component does not want to use it. No need to import.





Q4 => Briefly describe what is the use of the following in react js?

App.js
Index.js
app.css
index.html

Details of src directory
App.js - This is a component. This is the first component that is used in any react application.
index.js - This contains the whole JS for your website. This also contains the initialization code for React.
App.css - This is the CSS for App component. That means, whatever HTML we write in App can access this CSS, outside of that, other components cannot access.
index.css - This contains the whole CSS for your website. If we write any CSS code here, it will be avialble throughout the whole website.
index.html = > Index.html is main Document file 
